The first use case for OpenClaw you
definitely need to set up is the morning
brief. It's a two-minute message you
receive at the beginning of your morning
and it offers you an outline for the day
ahead. For my morning brief, I get
OpenClaw to scan through my emails and
tell me exactly which ones I need to
reply to or read, especially if there's
something urgent. I also get it to have
a look at my calendar and give me a
summary of all the scheduled meetings I
have for that day. Then I get it to have
a look at my task list and give me a
couple of tasks that are important that
I should do that day. And finally, I get
it to read through all the latest news
that happened overnight and give me a
summary of all the important ones based
on the industry I'm in, which is tech
and AI. The next use case for OpenCL is
a research or proactive research. It's
the ability for OpenClaw to go out on
the web and start investigating tasks
that you're doing, emails that you're
receiving, or even calendar invites that
you have. One way I personally use this
is for OpenClaw to jump into my calendar
and have a look at the people I'm
meeting. often they're international and
people I've never met before. It can
then go ahead and read some of their
blogs, see their LinkedIn profile, and
give me a summary of that person so that
I get a better idea of exactly who I'm
meeting and that I'm not going into that
appointment blind. Competitor analysis
is the next use case for OpenCore. It
sounds very businessoriented, but it
doesn't have to be. So, it's when you
investigate what other people in the
same vertical space as you are currently
creating and why they're doing so. For
me personally, this is setting up
OpenPaw to follow channels like Fire
Ship.io or Theo or WebDev Simplified and
then finding out exactly what content
videos they're creating so that I'm not
overlapping or I'm bringing something
new to the equation. I find this very
useful and it also helps me stay in tune
with what's happening right now in the
tech industry. The natural progression
to this and our next use case is market
research. It's essentially like
competitor analysis except you're doing
it against a trend or a topic. Market
research might look like following a
topic like AI and then making sure that
as soon as new AI models drop, then
OpenClaw can inform you of that
information. What it'll be doing is
scanning through popular news sites and
then essentially polling those so that
as soon as that information comes into
play and it's relevant to you, it'll
send you a message about it. For me
personally, I've set up OpenClaw to read
through the subreddits I normally read,
go through websites like daily.dev dev
or hash node and then it can read
through all the posts and send me only
the information I would likely want to
read in the first place because a lot of
the time I'm just scanning through those
websites finding one or two articles I
actually want to read and now I have
openclaw doing that for me. This brings
me to my next use case for openclaw
automatic scheduling. It's essentially
when you get openclaw to do things at
certain intervals. We've already had
lots of examples of this, but it's like
the morning brief where every time at
9:00 a.m. I want a message of the brief
of what my day ahead looks like. That's
an automatic schedule that's happening
once a day at 9:00 a.m. Automatic
scheduling can be done for lots of
different activities at different types
of intervals, and you'll have to decide
on your own what those are. Here's how I
personally use OpenClaw with automatic
scheduling. Once a week, I get OpenClaw
to do my competitor analysis, giving me
a debrief of exactly who's creating what
type of content. Once a day I have my
morning brief which is pretty useful and
once every hour I have it scanning
through and doing market research to see
exactly what trends and topics are
currently going viral. And just like
before this leads me straight into the
next use case for openclaw which is
monitoring. Monitoring and automatic
scheduling go hand in hand. You can have
open claw pretty much monitor anything
that you can imagine from cryptocurrency
or stocks to maybe reviews that are
coming in faster than you can read or
even for example website services that
you might be running. My own
implementation of this is just having
openclaw monitor the websites that I
have online. They check different types
of aspects of that website and click
through to make sure that they're
actually functioning as intended because
a lot of the time you might not realize
if a service is down until a customer
tells you. And this way you have an AI
agent automatically continue to monitor
that website and tell you as soon as it
might crash from an update. The next use
case is to set up OpenClaw on a cloud
VPS so it can run 24/7. For some reason
a lot of people are installing it on
their own computers and that is the last
thing I would recommend mainly because
of security but of course if you want
OpenClaw to run properly you want it to
run in isolation. I also don't think
that going to the Apple store and buying
an entire Mac Mini just to run OpenClaw
is a good idea unless you're actually
running local models, which we'll get to
later on. But for me personally, I've
been setting mine up in Hosingervp since
it's a place that I've actually built a
lot of startups in, and it's pretty easy
to do. So, here's how you can do it
yourself. Head to the link in my
description, and in here, you can sign
up with a discount of 10% if you use my
coupon code. Then, select a server
location. I'm going to select US. And
once done, you'll be taken to the
dashboard here under Docker Manager.
I'll head to the projects and I can see
OpenClaw is currently being set up. Once
it is, then you can just simply copy out
the gateway token. And you'll need this
for when you log in. To log in, just
select the link here, which also has the
port for OpenClaw. Paste that token in,
and now we're up and running. It's
probably one of the easiest and most
affordable ways to run OpenClaw 24/7.
Our next use case involves the use of
MCP tools. It allows you to connect
services to OpenClaw without doing so
directly. There is a lot of benefits to
using MCP such as being able to give
OpenClaw access to thousands of apps.
Also being able to restrict it to only
utilizing certain items from certain
apps, unlike API access, which might
give it access to simply everything. Let
me explain why this is so important. I
cannot understate how scary security can
be when you're using OpenClaw. For
example, when you install it, the very
first thing you need to do is accept
those risks. I've seen investigation
into a lot of the online skills you can
download for OpenClaw being honeybots
just to steal your information. Pretty
scary if you think about it. This is why
I'm using Zapier MCP to kind of act as a
man in the middle as a trusted source
rather than giving it direct access to
something like Gmail. It's also pretty
easy to set up. Simply ask OpenClaw to
connect up to Zapier and some of your
services, whether that's Gmail or your
calendar or notion. OpenClaw will tell
you exactly how to do this. You'll just
head to this link for mcp.zapier.com,
create a new MCP server, and select to
create a new one. And here's one of the
benefits of setting up MCP tools for
OpenClaw through something like Zapier.
You can now connect up thousands of apps
straight to OpenClaw without manually
configuring them since they're all done
through one single Zapier connection.
This is not only more secure, but it
actually lets you modify the exact
permissions that you want to give it,
such as finding emails and creating
drafts only and not allowing it to
accidentally delete emails. After this,
simply head to the connections tab and
copy out the connect to token and
address and paste that straight back
into OpenClaw. It'll be able to complete
the rest of the setup for itself. And
from here, it's now got access to
whatever tools and services you provide.
There's thousands through Zapier, but
right now I'm just connecting up my
Gmail here. I'll test that it can pull
up my emails. And once confirmed, I can
start adding this into different types
of morning briefs or routines that I
want to set up with OpenClaw. Quick
note, if you do want to learn a little
bit more about OpenClaw, as well as
things like clawed co-work and MCP.
There's a pretty cool workshop being run
by Zapier, which is on the 18th. You can
check out in the link in my description
below. The next use case for openclaw is
to run it with a local model. Rather
than using an online model like from
openai using chatgbt or codeex or even
anthropic and claude, you can actually
run your own models and this can have a
significant impact on the amount of
money you're going to pay if you're
going to start using openclaw. One thing
people don't realize is that OpenCore
can start to rack up a lot of money,
especially with its huge context
windows, which means that you could be
paying somewhere upwards of hundreds to
thousands of dollars a month just
running OpenClaw continuously in the
background. Now, one way to alleviate a
lot of those costs is to run a local
model for most of the content and only
reach out to online models when you're
doing more grunt work that requires a
little bit more brain. The way I do this
personally is to set up Olama on my own
PC and then I download a large language
model called Quen 3.5 which does a lot
more of that daily activity as well as
monitoring and even scheduling. The
drawback to this is that it's a lot
slower. You're not going to get the same
level of thinking and you're not going
to get the same level of output
performance as you do with large
language models in the cloud, but you do
get additional security and you do get
to save on a lot of costs because now
that you're running it on your own
hardware, the only thing you're really
paying for is electricity. The last use
case for OpenClaw is content management
system or CMS. It's the ability to store
information that it's working with in a
way that it can pull it out later when
it needs to. And while it's not a direct
use case, it's an indirect one that
plays a part into every type of task you
give OpenClaw. The reason why CMS is
important over just working memory is
the difference. For example, a context
window is only really working in one
single chat. Whereas openclaw can save
things like skills and working memory
inside of its repository as text files.
But this isn't very useful if you're
using multiple agents with OpenClaw.
They might all need to do independent
bits of work with similar bits of
information. A CMS allows all the agents
to share information across the board
and then from there they can make sure
they're working from one central source
of truth. Additionally, if you're
working with agents outside of OpenClaw,
they can also update that information.
And finally, when there's a bigger
better version of OpenClaw, maybe Chad
GPT claw and that gets released, they
can continue to use the same database
rather than you trying to manually
migrate the context and memory that is
currently saved in openclaw. If there
are any interesting use cases you
figured out on your own and you want to
share them, add them in the comments
below. If you're excited about OpenClaw
and want to start using it, I've got a
video up here where I install and set it
up. So, definitely check that out next.